>> Mike North: We're gonna take
a look at some more advanced types.
I know it seems like we've already been
in advanced having gone through with
a generics.
But I want you to get a sense for
what's possible as you learn more and
more about how to design effective
constraints with typescript.
>> Mike North: First we're
gonna look at mapped types.
And this involves using an interface as
a way from getting to the interfaces keys
to the types associated with those keys.
So we had a function
earlier in the workshop
where we were trying to contact
people by phone or email.
And we used overloads,
we use multiple functions signatures,
in order to insure that email,
one with email and phone, one with phone.
This will require as new
communications methods were added,
will requires to add more signatures,
right?
One for each new, coupling of the first
and the second parameter together.
So we are going to use map type
to accomplish similar thing.
>> Mike North: So here is a new function,
it's called contact,
it has a type parameter that must extend
from a key of the above interface.
Anyone have a hunch as to what
the possible values of that could be?
>> Speaker 2: Email ,phone, fax
>> Mike North: Email, phone,
fax, thank you.
So email, phone, and fax, and
then we're taking that type and
this is what makes it a map type.
We're passing that key into the interface,
and
we'll get the corresponding
value associated with that key.
So here these three will all work, but
if I were to try to reverse things
like use phone up here we're gonna get
the same kinds of errors that we were
getting with the function signatures.
The first parameter and
the second parameter must agree.
But in my opinion, this is a little
bit easier to maintain because for
new communication methods we only need to
add a sort of a new road to the interface.
And what's more, we could use this,
we could consume this type and
do this mapping across many
different things in our app.
So if you have some concept
like the different types of
models that you can get from your API,
and you want to refer to them by name, and
then you can get that correct type back.
You can have one source of truth
where all of this is maintained and
then everything else that consumes
the map's type in this way.
They can
automatically get updated because they're
expressed in terms of that one interface.
So it's just like in the value world,
this is taking, sorry, I'm scrolling here.
In the JavaScript values world,
this is just taking a key and
passing it into an object to get its
value, and the syntax is the same.
So I just think of this like objects.
So as you said, the available keys here,
a key of communication methods email,
phone, or fax.
We can even get all values
by taking these keys and
projecting the set of
the three of them through
the interface to get all
of the possible values.
HasEmail of HasPhoneNumber or fax,
that is all three of these up here.
So if you have anything that were
you've got a or b, or c, and
pass it through interface, you'll get
the corresponding value of that key or
value of the other key, or
the value of the third key, right?
>> Mike North: Pretty cool, I mean it
seems like you would hope it would work,
and it does.
Type queries, a colors,
and advance concept, but
it's relatively simple to understand,
typeof allows us to get
the type of a symbol,
the type of a value I should say.
Symbol is a very overloaded
term in JavaScript.
So here we've got a value whose type
is a promise that resolves to a number.
And I can get the typeof what
promise that resolve has like
the type of this function here,
I can kind of acquire that
by using the type of operator
in the context of a type alias.
You could do the same thing like this.
>> Mike North: Well,
I do it like let, but there you go.
So this is called a type query cuz you're
kind of querying for this values type.
>> Mike North: Conditional types this was
added in types script 2.8 which is pretty
recent.
This is a tunnery operator for types.
So we've got a generic here,
you can only use them with generics.
>> Mike North: We're saying we want to
basically grab the type of a promise, or
let something pass straight
through if it's not a promise.
So this is like, give me the eventual
value that this will turn into and
if it's not a promise,
that is the value itself.
So we take in a type T,
if T extends from Promise,
extract out the type that the Promise
resolves to, we use infer here.
This is the only place you can use infer,
but
it let's you pluck out the type
the Promise resolves to.
So if T extends from Promise,
return what it results to, otherwise,
just let is sail straight through.
And here,
we can see that a is of type number.
We're saying EventualType
of Promise number.
A number comes out cuz we're following
we're in the truthy clause here.
In b we can see that the number array
kinda sails straight through, right?
Cuz it's following this branch down here.